after a bad day at work you decide to
hide yourself from the rest of the world
you turn off your phone and your laptop
and lock yourself
inside the bathroom you jump out of your
meditation when you hear a beeping sound
it's your toothbrush saying data
transfer completed
your robot vacuum knocks at the door
looks like it must be
after you robot vacuums make a map of
your home to get around and plan
cleaning better
they can share this map with other
gadgets via wi-fi
and store them in the cloud when
advertisers get access to those maps
they can get an idea of your home size
your income level
and lifestyle to send the right ads your
way
vacuums don't have microphones but their
navigation systems can be repurposed to
listen to your conversations
they map the room with a laser beam
directed at objects
sound waves affect that light if you
collect that data
you can convert it back into sound waves
and identify what someone said
headphones and microphones are based on
the same idea
headphones turn electrical signals into
sound and
microphones turn sound into electrical
signals if you plug your headphones into
the microphone jack
they'll work as a microphone bad guys
learn to do it remotely without your
consent
there's malware that re-tasks your
computer output channel
into input channel it can record sounds
from across the room
even when the headphones are in their
jack and the microphone is turned off
and disconnected from the computer then
it compresses the audio and sends it
over the internet
there are computer mice that look like
regular ones but have microphones and a
built-in sim card in them
the mics are so powerful they can even
record whisper and broadcast that audio
in real time
to activate it you have to call the sim
card number and it goes on
silently to deactivate it you can send
an sms to the same number
some employers confirmed eavesdropping
on their staff using that technology
a smart toothbrush remembers every move
you made with it
and shares it with you when you're done
brushing it also connects to your iphone
or
android using an app and sends data on
your brushing habits to your dentist
they can watch over your brushing
process and give you tips on how to take
better care of your teeth smart watches
fitness trackers and other smart
wearables
monitor your health and can determine if
you're walking running or
driving with their built-in sensors if
third parties get control over that data
they can also monitor your hand
movements as you unlock your phone
and your pin code at the atm or your
password at the computer
the gadgets are smart enough to
accurately guess all that secret data
most of the time
they can also find out the email address
you use when you register
with the app to identify who you are
pacemakers and other health devices send
patient data over the internet
in theory criminals could obtain it
during transfer
and change it to look like the patient
needs hospital treatment
that would make them leave their home
and bad guys could take advantage of the
situation
smart toys that have cameras and
microphones in them can record
videos and sounds and send them to the
toy maker
to keep prices on smart toys lower they
don't add expensive security mechanisms
to protect that data
if cyber criminals get a hold of it they
can steal pictures
videos or audio and even identify gps
coordinates of the house
led lights equipped with sensors and
connected to video cameras
can watch over and listen to
conversations over a large distance
this technology was used at one large
airport for security and comfort reasons
cyber criminals went further and learned
to use ordinary light bulbs for ease
dropping on conversations
to do it they need a clean line of sight
between a powerful telescope
and the bulb of the right thickness it
won't work if you have drapes on your
window
when you're talking or listening to
music there are changes in air pressure
on the surface of the bulb
and it's shaking a bit a special
converter can turn data on the sounds
from
electrical to digital internet connected
thermostats can be operated remotely
and that made them desirable for cyber
criminals
they once got access to millions of
debit and credit cards data
through a large retailer's heating and
cooling system other bad guys found a
way to remotely lock
smart thermostats controls and demanded
ransom to
unlock them smart fridges can tell you
when it's time to buy milk
as they track your food preferences and
have great connectivity
smart dishwashers coffee machines
washers and dryers are also
collecting and transmitting your data
even at moments you don't think they're
doing it
criminals can make use of that data to
find out a lot about your schedule
and guess when you aren't at home
your voice assistant makes your life
easier but it must listen to you
24 7 to make that possible they never
record anything you say before you
activate them with your voice
everything that follows is stored in the
cloud and can be of use for different
companies
they can learn what music you like to
listen to what news stories
interest you the most and where you make
your reservations
some companies hire human reviewers to
listen to commands
to see if voice recognition works well
and improve its accuracy
xbox admitted they also hired people to
listen to users audio
to improve voice command features the
problem is that it made some recordings
by mistake
and strangers were listening to personal
chats
home security cameras can take videos
pictures and audio recording
and upload them to the cloud without you
even knowing
manufacturers say it's done to improve
object recognition
you can get access to that camera
footage remotely using an
app there are programs that can guess a
cctv
password and forward the video stream to
a third-party computer
they can also get control over the
camera and disable any signs of
monitoring like red light
so it seems inactive almost
every car has an event data recorder
that tracks information on its location
average speed road condition and even
your preferred route
your computer on wheels constantly
streams that data to its manufacture
they use it to try to prevent accidents
and make other improvements
it's not clear who owns all that car
related information
so in theory it could end up at a third
party
smart tvs run an operating system just
like computers and also have a file
system
cameras for video face recognition and a
microphone
they are always connected to the
internet and if cyber criminals get
access to a tv
that can change certain settings and
record audio even when the tv is off
they could also watch you through the
camera and use the smart gadget to move
to other devices on the same network
like your laptop well i'm totally
creeped out so what can we do about it
you can disable automatic content
recognition to stop your tv from giving
you viewing recommendations
and limit voice activation function for
a safer experience
you'll find that option in general or
advanced settings under
viewing information or viewing data you
can also disconnect it from the cloud
altogether always change default
passwords and usernames on new devices
to secure your network make up a new
password for every gadget every now and
then
you can also split your modem and use
one wi-fi signal for laptops ipads and
the like
and the other for security cameras don't
forget to turn off the wi-fi router when
you leave the house
to minimize the risk of a digital
intrusion
whenever possible enable two-step
authentication that demands physical
access to the device to log
in always install software updates as
soon as the gadget
manufacturer offers you to do it updates
have patches for detected vulnerability
issues
cover your laptop camera with a dark
colored tape when you aren't using it
delete your conversations with a voice
assistant you can do it at the
manufacturer's website or
app another option is to activate the
delete by voice function in settings
then you'll be able to tell the
assistant to delete what you just said
or your last conversations
you can also mute the device when you
aren't using it and choose
not to send data to manufacturer to help
them improve services
if you have a thermostat that connects
to your voice assistant
tap the microphone icon on its screen
and set voice control to off
you won't be able to activate it
remotely and it won't be able to listen
to wake words
and send your audio anywhere okay have a
nice day